### Data Fusion {#3.2.001_data_fusion}

Data fusion is the process of integrating different datasets or
classifiers together (see
[wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_fusion)), ultimately with the
hope that it will make your prediction better. For example, neuroimaging
and clinical data could be fused together and a classifier could be
trained on these data. Alternatively, the researcher could conduct
multiple analyses with different classifiers and then fuse the decision
scores together. For theory of decision-based data fusion see the
extensive work of Robi Polikar (e.g., [Polikar,
2006](http://users.rowan.edu/~polikar/RESEARCH/PUBLICATIONS/csm06.pdf))
and for practical example see [Cabral et al.,
2016](http://schizophreniabulletin.oxfordjournals.org/content/42/suppl_1/S110.short).
For data fusion to work in NeuroMiner, the user must enter different
data sets that will be processed (called 'modalities' as discussed in
section
[\[mainmenu_3.1_input_data\]](#mainmenu_3.1_input_data){reference-type="ref"
reference="mainmenu_3.1_input_data"}).

When different data modalities are entered, the first option in the
parameter template will be: **1: Define data fusion options**. Selecting
this option will lead to the following menu:

No fusion\
Early fusion -$>$ Modality concatenation BEFORE feature preprocessing\
Intermediate fusion -$>$ Modality concatenation AFTER preprocessing\
Late fusion -$>$ Decision-based data fusion

**1 : No fusion** Don't fuse the modalities.

**2 : Early fusion -$>$ Modality concatenation BEFORE feature
preprocessing** This is the most basic method of data fusion and means
that the feature matrices will be concatenated and then all processing
is conducted as normal. This will then display the modalities and ask
the user to select the modalities that they would like to fuse.
Modalities can be selected by entering single numbers (e.g., 1,2) or
ranges (e.g., 1:3).

**3 : Intermediate fusion -$>$ Modality concatenation AFTER
preprocessing** The feature matrices are concatenated **after** they are
**preprocessed** and then training is conducted. This will then display
the modalities and ask the user to select the modalities that they would
like to fuse. Modalities can be selected by entering single numbers
(e.g., 1,2) or ranges (e.g., 1:3). Keep in-mind that the free parameters
defined in the separate processing of each modality will expand the
overall model optimization process conducted in the training stage.

**4 : Late fusion -$>$ Decision-based data fusion** Late fusion is when
completely separate pipelines are run on each data modality, decision
scores are produced, and then the scores are fused together and the
decision score is based on an average of the decision scores. This is
the most basic strategy for combining modalities at the classifier level
and is known as bagging. This will then display the modalities and ask
the user to select the modalities that they would like to fuse.
Modalities can be selected by entering single numbers (e.g., 1,2) or
ranges (e.g., 1:3).

**Important note for intermediate and late fusion.** If either
intermediate or late fusion is selected, then it will be necessary to
establish different settings (preprocessing, training, or both) for each
of the different analyses. For this purpose, another menu item will be
introduced into the parameter template called **2: Set active modality
for configuration**. Selecting this option will display the modalities
that are available. It is necessary to select one of these modalities,
then to alter the preprocessing/training settings, and then move onto
the next analysis. Following this process, you can then initialize the
analyses and proceed with the analysis as normal.

It is important to note that fusing data will result in more complicated
results that may not be as interpretable as a single analysis without
fusion.
