### Visualization options {#3.2.06_visualization_options}

In NeuroMiner, visualization refers to the representation of the model
weights for each feature. In the case of neuroimaging, this means that
the brain maps are 'visualized'. This setting gives the user the option
to derive Z scores and P values using permutation analysis.

The magnitude of the feature weights do not necessarily inform the user
about the statistical significance (i.e., the degree to which the result
may replicate)(see [Bilwaj & Davatsikos,
2013](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3767485/)). To do
this, permutations analysis can be conducted to create an empirical null
distribution of weights for each feature and then the observed weight is
compared to this distribution. This is described in the supplementary
material of [Koutsouleris et al.
(2016)](http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lanpsy/article/PIIS2215-0366(16)30171-7/supplemental).

The method is based on [Golland & Fischl
(2003)](https://nmr.mgh.harvard.edu/~fischl/reprints/golland-fischl-ipmi03.pdf)
and involves the permutation of the outcome labels, features, or both.
For each permutation, the models are retrained in the cross-validation
framework using the respective feature/label subsets obtained from the
observed-label analyses. For each permutation, the predictions are
accumulated of the random models into a permuted ensemble prediction for
each CV2 subject. Thus, a null distribution of out-of-training
classification performance (BAC) for the prediction models is
constructed. The significance of the observed out-of-training BAC is
calculated as the number of events where the permuted out-of-training
BAC is higher or equal to the observed BAC divided by the number of
permutations performed. The significance of the model can then be
determined by using a p threshold (e.g., p$>$0.05).

When the option is selected, you will be prompted to enter the number of
permutations conducted (this will be dependent on sample size, analysis
complexity, and computational time) and then whether you would like to
have the labels, the features, or both permuted (see Golland et al.,
2003 for details).

It is important to note that using PCA with this method will result in
overly conservative p-values and is not recommended.
